Menu (#2957)
jpmorganchase/salt-ds: site/docs/components/menu/accessibility.mdx

---
title:
  $ref: ./#/title
layout: DetailComponent
sidebar:
  exclude: true
data:
  $ref: ./#/data
---

## Keyboard interactions

> Where needed, a table of keyboard controls can be created as shown below (just
> delete it, if not needed)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

<KeyboardControls>
<KeyboardControl keyOrCombos="Tab">

> If focus is on a menu item, closes the menu and moves focus to the next focusable element in the tab order.
> 
> </KeyboardControl>
> <KeyboardControl keyOrCombos="Shift + Tab">
> 
> If focus is on a menu item, closes the menu and moves focus to the previous focusable element in the tab order.
> 
> </KeyboardControl>
> <KeyboardControl keyOrCombos="Space / Enter">
> 
> - If focus is on the menu trigger, opens the menu and places focus on the first menu item.
> - When focus is on a menu item that has a submenu, opens the submenu and places focus on its first item.
> - Otherwise, activates the item, and closes the menu.
> 
> </KeyboardControl>
> <KeyboardControl keyOrCombos="Up Arrow">
>   
> When focus is in a menu, moves focus to the previous item.
> 
> </KeyboardControl>
>   
> <KeyboardControl keyOrCombos="Down Arrow">
> 
> When focus is in a menu, moves focus to the next item.
> 
> </KeyboardControl>
> <KeyboardControl keyOrCombos="Right Arrow">
>   
> When focus is in a menu and on a menu item that has a submenu, opens the submenu and places focus on its first item.
> 
> </KeyboardControl>
> 
> <KeyboardControl keyOrCombos="Left Arrow">
> 
> When focus is in a submenu of an item in a menu, closes the submenu and returns focus to the parent menu item.
> 
> </KeyboardControl>
> <KeyboardControl keyOrCombos="Escape">
>   
> Closes the menu, and sets focus to the element element that triggered opening the menu, e.g. a button or the parent menu item from which the menu was opened.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If focus is on a menu item, Tab closes the menu and moves focus to the next focusable element in the tab order.

</KeyboardControl>
<KeyboardControl keyOrCombos="Shift + Tab">

If focus is on a menu item, this action closes the menu and moves focus to the previous focusable element in the tab order.

</KeyboardControl>
<KeyboardControl keyOrCombos="Space / Enter">

- If focus is on the menu trigger, this action opens the menu and places focus on the first menu item.
- When focus is on a menu item that has a submenu, this action opens the submenu and places focus on its first item.
- Otherwise, this actionaactivates the item, and closes the menu.

</KeyboardControl>
<KeyboardControl keyOrCombos="Up arrow">
  
When focus is in a menu, Up arrow moves focus to the previous item.

</KeyboardControl>
  
<KeyboardControl keyOrCombos="Down arrow">

When focus is in a menu, Down arrow moves focus to the next item.

</KeyboardControl>
<KeyboardControl keyOrCombos="Right arrow">
  
When focus is in a menu and on a menu item that has a submenu, Right arrow opens the submenu and places focus on its first item.

</KeyboardControl>

<KeyboardControl keyOrCombos="Left arrow">

When focus is in a submenu of an item in a menu, Left arrow closes the submenu and returns focus to the parent menu item.

</KeyboardControl>
<KeyboardControl keyOrCombos="Escape">
  
Escape closes the menu, and sets focus to the element element that triggered opening the menu, e.g. a button or the parent menu item from which the menu was opened.
```
